With the expansion of
reliable high-speed internet,
the number of computers connected to
the internet increased dramatically.
Because malware could spread
through the internet,
threat actors no longer needed to use
physical disks to spread viruses.
To better understand
attacks in the digital age,
we'll discuss two notable attacks
that relied on the internet:
the LoveLetter attack and
the Equifax breach.
In the year 2000,
Onel De Guzman created the LoveLetter
malware to steal
internet login credentials.
This attack spread rapidly and
took advantage of people who had not
developed a healthy suspicion for
unsolicited emails.
Users received an email with
the subject line, "I Love You."
Each email contained an attachment
labeled, "Love Letter For You."
When the attachment was opened,
the malware scanned a user's address book.
Then, it automatically sent itself
to each person on the list and
installed a program to collect
user information and passwords.
Recipients would think they were
receiving an email from a friend, but
it was actually malware.
The LoveLetter ended up infecting
45 million computers globally
and is believed to have caused over
$10 billion dollars in damages.
The LoveLetter attack is the first
example of social engineering.
Social engineering is a manipulation
technique that exploits
human error to gain private information,
access, or valuables.
After the LoveLetter,
attackers understood the power
of social engineering.
The number of social engineering
attacks is increasing with every new
social media application that allows
public access to people's data.
Many people are now prioritizing
convenience over privacy.
The trade-off of this evolving shift
is that these tools may lead to
increased vulnerability, if people
do not use them appropriately.
As a security professional,
your role is to identify and
manage inappropriate use of technology
that may place your organization and
all the people associated with it at risk.
One way to safeguard your organization is
to conduct regular internal trainings,
which you as a future security analyst
may be asked to lead or participate in.
Today, it's common for
employees to receive training on how
to identify social engineering attacks.
Specifically, phishing through
the emails they receive.
Phishing is the use of digital
communications to trick people into
revealing sensitive data or
deploying malicious software.
Now, let's discuss the Equifax breach.
In 2017,
attackers successfully infiltrated
the credit reporting agency, Equifax.
This resulted in one of the largest known
data breaches of sensitive information.
Over 143 million customer
records were stolen, and
the breach affected approximately
40% of all Americans.
The records included personally
identifiable information including
social security numbers, birth dates,
driver's license numbers,
home addresses, and credit card numbers.
From a security standpoint,
the breach occurred due to multiple
failures on Equifax's part.
It wasn't just one vulnerability that
the attackers took advantage of,
there were several.
The company failed to take the actions
needed to fix multiple known
vulnerabilities in the months
leading up to the data breach.
In the end,
Equifax settled with the U.S. government and
paid over $575 million dollars to resolve customer
complaints and cover required fines.
While there have been other data breaches
before and after the Equifax breach,
the large settlement with the U.S.
government alerted companies to
the financial impact of a breach and the
need to implement preventative measures.
These are just a couple of well-known
incidents that have shaped
the security industry.
Knowing about them will help
you in your security career.
Understanding different types of malware
and social engineering attacks will
allow you to communicate about security
risks during future job interviews.
As a future security professional,
constantly adapting and educating
yourself on threat actors' tactics and
techniques will be a part of your job.
By noticing similar trends,
patterns, and methodologies,
you may be able to identify a potential
breach and limit future damage.
Finally, understanding how
security affects people's lives is
a good reminder of why the work
you will do is so important!